just gone through life telling myself
that I just have a bad memory we can
turn this into a little master class go
ahead so the three keys to a better
memory are Jim quick in the house they
globally recognize leader in memory
improvement training your brain to work
better if you want to learn faster you
want to retain that information you are
in for an absolute treat Google Virgin
Nike why are they coming to you they're
struggling with distraction memory loss
it's affecting their performance their
productivity our mind controls all the
treasures of our life yet it's not user
friendly the reason I'm so passionate
about it is because I grew up with a
broken brain
I was five years old and I had a
traumatic brain injury I didn't
understand things like everybody else I
was being teased pretty bad a teacher
pointed to me and said leave this kid
alone that's the boy with the broken
brain that was the darkest time of my
life and in that moment I learned my
mission to build better brighter brains
memory retention is getting worse and
worse we live in an age where the amount
of information is doubling at dizzying
speed the higher Reliance of technology
to store information that you would
normally have to store in your brain
means that not everybody is exercising
those parts keep her memory sharp the
other dip in cognitive performance often
when people retire they mentally retire
the body is not too far behind there's a
study done on these nuns they're living
90 and above and because they were
learning all the time it had a year to
their life surprises a lot of people
because they have this thinking that
their intelligence is fixed the truth is
there's no such thing as good or bad
memory there's a trained memory and
there's an untrained memory I'm gonna
give everybody right now the 10 keys and
this is how real transformation happens
the boy with a broken brain that's what
his teachers called him after Jim had a
tragic accident at a young age that left
him with a permanent brain injury and he
believed it he lived it he embodied that
identity he believed he was broken and
then because of a chance experience
which we can all choose to have right
now that limiting belief was unlocked
and he realized that the stories we tell
ourselves about ourselves about who we
are and what we're capable of achieving
and what we're capable of doing are
exactly that
stories I've spent decades telling
myself that I have a bad memory so much
so that at 30 years old it's just part
of my identity and after this
conversation I realized
I'm wrong if a man like Jim the boy with
a broken brain can go from that poor
memory low potential self-doubt to being
a memory expert and becoming Limitless
then that says something about who any
of us can become if you want to learn
faster if you want to become more
persuasive better in business work
creativity podcasting whatever it is you
do then knowing how to retain important
information might just be the key to
becoming Limitless that you've been
looking for Google Nike they all use gym
to improve their team's memory and brain
power and today he'll be coaching you
for free
[Music]
Jim before we started recording you used
a curious word you said mission
yeah
what is your mission what is the mission
you're on and why is that mission
important to you but also to the world
our team is small and people but we're
big in purpose our mission is to build
better brighter brains no brain left
behind
I feel like we live in the Millennium of
the Mind where our mind controls so much
in our lives our relationships our
health our careers our schooling and uh
yet our mind it doesn't come with an
owner's manual and it's not user
friendly
uh yet it's our number one wealth
building asset like nobody listening is
paid it's not like it was 100 years ago
where it's your brute strength today
it's your brain strength it's not like
it's your muscle power today it's your
mind power and I do believe the faster
you learn the faster you can earn
because knowledge today's not only Power
knowledge is profit and I don't just
mean Financial that's kind of obvious
but it's all the treasures of our life
and um the reason I'm so passionate
about it is I grew up with a traumatic
brain injury as a when I was a child and
uh and I just things didn't work for me
like everybody else and through those
struggles you know I developed some
strengths over the years and and I
always thought it was interesting that
there's no class on focus on
concentration on on recall right and so
I I put the schoolwork aside because I
wasn't getting gains there anyway and I
start really focusing on this learning
how to learn
and so I put my focus in those areas
start studying a little bit about adult
learning theory I got introduced to uh
mnemonics which is you know memory
techniques
um speed reading the Art and Science of
reading for better comprehension
understanding and about two months into
it a light switch like flipped on and I
just started to understand things in
school for the first time
and it was so pronounced that I felt two
emotions I felt like
this is awesome because with my grades
improving my life improved and I started
it started to affect my identity and how
I saw myself and how other people saw me
but other the other emotion I felt if
I'm honest was anger
I I was so upset that I spent my entire
childhood struggling every single day
unsure about myself doubting myself and
there were simple things that
I could have learned that would have
made my life a lot easier
and I realized that in school
it's not how smart you are
it's how are you smart it's not how
smart you are how smart your significant
other is your kids are your teammates
it's how are they smart
and and I do believe that that we have
this if knowledge is power then learning
is our superpower it's the superpower we
all have
and so from there
I couldn't help but help other people
and I'm kind of agnostic how it happens
whether it's our books or podcasts or
YouTube or courses but I want to have a
positive impact on people's brains
as it relates to memory I think I've
just gone through life telling myself
that I just have a bad memory you know
I'm the type of person that forgets
names instantaneously
um and I've just I've just come to
believe that that's just me right and I
I've almost resigned to that so I I'll
be honest I don't think I really try
that hard anymore because I just think
my type of brain is the type of brain
that can't retain
most information especially if I don't
consider it to be important information
am I bullshitting myself
you are it's complete BS
um belief systems if you want to if you
want to give it a label BS belief
systems I believe our brains are just
incredible super computer and our
self-talk our thoughts our beliefs are
the program it will run so if you tell
yourself I'm not good at remembering
people's name you will not remember the
name and next person you meet because
you program your supercomputer not to
and it's more than anecdotal I really do
believe people at events will see me do
these demonstrations they're surprised
to hear that grope is learning
difficulties and put in special
education but before I go on stage
people invariably in the lobby pull me
aside and the whisper to me when no
one's listening Jim I'm so glad you're
here I have a horrible memory I'm
getting way too old I'm not smart enough
and I always say stop if you fight for
your limitations you get to keep them
if you fight for your limits they're
they're yours if people truly understood
how powerful our mind is
they wouldn't say or think something
they didn't want to be true and that's
not to say you you have one negative
thought it ruins your life any more than
eating that one donut will ruin your
life but you ate those donuts every
single day consistency will compound you
know and it'll change the the direction
or the destination
I have to zoom in there so four years
old
were you 44 years old when you had a
brain injury uh yeah if I was five years
old in public school
um Elementary School I was Kindergarten
here in the states had an accident where
I lost my balance and I went head first
into the radiator uh separating the
window in me
there's a lot of blood and there I was I
was rushed to the hospital where I
really showed up though was my parents
said where I was very as a child very
energized very like the most kids very
playful very curious
um very excited I became very shut down
my processing issues they said I didn't
understand things like everybody else
teachers would repeat themselves over
and over again
and later on when I was nine years old I
remember I was being teased pretty bad
for slowing down the class
and a teacher came to my defense but she
pointed to me from the whole class and
said leave this kid alone that's the boy
with the broken brain and that that
really became my identity you know I she
was sincere like but she you know like
all like she was trying to help but
that's all I remembered was like oh I
didn't know I had the broken brain and
so that became my explanatory schema for
everything every single time I did badly
in school which was daily I did barely
on a test or report or I would say I
have the broken brain or if I wasn't
picked for sports which was all the time
I was just this little kid I would say
oh because I have the broken brain and
that label became my limit
you know it's um you know I do believe
that we have to be solely responsible
you know for our lives you know so I
don't want to say that was a victim but
you know we are shaped by our
environment by our experiences by our
external and uh and that was the that
was very that was something that I
really struggled with you started the
um quick learning in 2001 when you're 28
years old and if you think about the
clients you have there I mean I read
about a lot of them Google Virgin Nike
Etc they clients of yours yeah
at the very heart of it the core of it
why why are they coming to you what is
the benefit the why is you call it yeah
that people are seeking
I think people tend to come to us
because
they are they're struggling with
distraction with memory loss with uh
overload
right in anxiety from information
anxiety they're drowning information I
think people who come to me realize that
their ability to learn and translate
that learning into action is an
incredible competitive Advantage you
know in a world where there's lots of
distraction there's lots of overload
there's lots of technology that will
make our life easier but it also in some
ways while it's convenient could also
[__] us in a way that we're not using
our mental faculties as much as just
like uh you know my shirt here says use
it right it's like use it or lose it
it's like our body if I put my arm in a
sling for a year it wouldn't grow
stronger it wouldn't even stay the same
it would atrophy and the high Reliance
on technology like using your phone as
an external memory storage they call
digital dementia it's a new term in
healthcare digital dementia is the
higher Reliance of technology to store
information that you would normally have
to store in your in your brain but now
that you don't have to do it not
everybody is exercising those parts of
our brain to keep our memory sharp is
there science that shows we have to
exercise our brain
you know the two biggest uh two dips
cognitively in terms of cognitive
performance in people's life cycle
usually happens when people graduate
school
because somehow they associate education
along with learning they think they're
traditional education is over so they're
learning is they're not learning right
and that could be an unconscious belief
but the other dip in cognitive
performance is usually when people
retire
often when people retire out of their
career their job sometimes they mentally
retire and it's interesting that Once
the mind kind of retires the body is not
too far behind there's a study done
on these nuns I was a longevity study
called Aging with Grace great a great
title they're living 80 90 and above and
they wanted to find out what was uh what
was the cause of their longevity and
they said half of it was their emotional
Faith or gratitude the other half they
were lifelong learners
and because they were learning all the
time on the daily it added years to our
life but also life to their years it
made the cup the cover of a Time
Magazine but I I do really do believe
that you know that we have to keep our
minds active as much as we have to keep
our and keep our bodies active there's a
lot of
talk and
um there is a narrative that says when
people
retire
they die there's like a a long-held
thing where there's a seems to be a
startling correlation between when
someone retires and then them passing
away soon after there's also quite an
interesting correlation between elderly
couples and when one of them passes away
the other one often passes away
suspiciously soon after yeah
do you think that's linked what you're
saying that cognitive sort of
stimulation is Central to our
physiological longevity yeah I mean this
the study aging with Grace you know what
would be would be evidence that you want
to keep your mind active you know till
the day you you die at every age or
stage right that you could actually
Stave off brain aging challenges much
like you know an atrophy of the mind if
you will just like you would keep your
body active I mean I think most people
would have the same understanding if
they stop moving their body you know
over you know at the retirement years
then um you know it lead to probably
unfavorable results
it's the evolutionary reason for that
you know could you take could you have a
hypothesis as to why from an
evolutionary perspective yeah the body
would decide to you know the um everyone
we talk about a mind-body connection we
hear we hear that a lot you know so the
primary reason you have a brain is to
control your movement that's the number
one reason mammals have brains is to
control movement and it's not just a
one-way connection that it's um
that as
yes your brain controls your movement
but actually moving actually stimulates
different parts of your brain
um
before I do this podcast I do exercise
yes very much so and even and develop I
had a we had our firstborn recently a
few months ago you know so crawling you
know as you look at the study of of
brain development that cross lateral is
very important even we do that in our
events when we do our our brain
conferences and such we get everybody
standing up and doing these uh the in
this area science called educational
Kinesiology
popularized by brain gym where you have
you take one knee as you're standing and
lift it and touch it with the opposite
hand and you go back and forth it's
things that are crossing the midline
forces left and right brain
communication so you have left brain and
your right brain and separated by that
is a bridging station called a corpus
callosum and by doing these exercises it
increases communication between left and
right brain and this is an
oversimplification left brain is if
someone's left brain they're they
they're said to be more logical right
how do we know how do we know if
someone's left brain left brain or right
brain yeah how do we know yeah we have
we have a couple Assessments in
Limitless but you can find it online you
know free assessments for brain
dominance left and right brain and in
there we have multiple intelligence
theory a study at a research out of
Harvard University by Howard Gardner
says that there's not in the U.S in a
lot of westernized societies they tend
to emphasize two kinds of intelligences
verbal linguistic and mathematical here
in the states we have the SATs right
it's just verbal you know reading
comprehension and mathematical
Howard Gardner says they're actually not
limited to two intelligences and so
they're more and each one can be
developed and so for example kinesthetic
intelligence you know great your great
choreographers great dancers athletes
um interpersonal intelligence people who
have this innate talent that could to
relate to people on connect uh visual
spatial intelligence people who are
incredible graphic artists Architects
right musical intelligence it just goes
on so um there are these other
assessments and I really the reason why
I put so many of this in Limitless in
our podcast and we created our own
assessment uh recently this year we
haven't talked about it we're just
launching it now called cognitive types
and these are I use animals as a
metaphor because I think so much of us
for happiness for me has always been
having the Curiosity to know yourself
right that's why you go to therapy or
you journal or you meditate or you you
know you read about that inter intra
personal intelligence self to self as
opposed to interpersonal self to others
but once you have the Curiosity to know
yourself
Having the courage to be yourself is a
different game too because so many
people mitigated you know like their
expression of who they are because of
looking bad or how people would perceive
them and so on but this cognitive type
and I'll go back to answer your question
we've found in delineate I pulled from
you know Myers-Briggs and multiple
intelligence theory introvert extrovert
ambivert uh lateral thinking styles to
realize that they're about four buckets
of cognitive types and I used animals to
as a metaphor to represent them so this
full cognitive types and it what's the
acronym sorry her code c-o-d-e c-o-d-e
so what does the C stand for so very
briefly the C and as you're listening
this you could see which one kind of
hand raised for yourself even take a
snapshot of this and post you know which
one you think you are or will we have an
assessment online also as well that's
free the C is cheetah and these are your
your intuitives and you might know you
might have someone on your team or your
family member that are cheetahs they're
fast acting they're just always moving
they they they thrive in fast-paced
environments right Sophie I reckon
that's my assistant Sophie maybe me as
well Jack what do you think do you think
I'm a cheater
fast acting thriving fast-paced
environments does that sound like me
you think so okay the uh and the O is
the is the owl and you might know people
the hours often link to logic uh
critical thinking they love data uh
facts formulas figures right they they
lean into that information sounds like
Grace Miller on our team
Charles we have a data scientist in our
team as well very nice yeah
Michael as well yeah okay lean into
information so that's the owl the D is
are your dolphins and your dolphins are
your creative Visionaries
uh these people love problem solving
they love to be creative expression uh
create a pattern recognition
right they they see patterns that maybe
a lot of people don't see as as easily
or naturally dolphin so they're the
creatives amongst us yes and I think a
lot of the future belongs to the
creatives you know the creators if you
will you're thinking about AI aren't you
yeah that's an interesting conversation
also as well and finally the E are your
elephants and your elephants I chose
them because uh
I use them as representative symbol for
like empathy uh they love collaboration
tribes right working team environment so
we we created these models because you
know yourself right even even in the
Matrix when when he's going to see the
Oracle and the sign right above in the
kitchen was and you know know thyself
and then we could be ourselves but one
the more you know about yourself and
then you have a way of filtering the
world and then not being judgmental of
yourself or even others is just how
people are organized you know some
people are just right-handed or they're
left-handed right they have certain
preferences and so these are it can help
you inform you based on like yourself if
you're if you know like you thrive in
certain environments and then we give
you know in the report careers that you
would excel in and this is kind of
obvious right if somebody's creative
certain career paths what if you're a
couple of these things yeah so we have
when you go through it there's a primary
and there's a secondary you know and so
the these are usually I mean very very
few people because we have all the back
end stats we have you know is is
completely even 25 and so on but we
usually have a place where if I ask
everybody to write their name on a piece
of paper you could do that but if I ask
you to switch hands and un below it
write your first and last name below
that that second time is gonna feel it's
gonna take longer
it's gonna feel awkward and the quality
is probably not going to be as good as
the first one
and have you ever been in a situation
where you're learning something and it's
a subject you're you're interested in
but for some reason you're just not
getting it because you're just not
connecting with the instructor
it's kind of like the way that they
prefer to teach is different than the
way you prefer to learn and it's like
you're two ships in a night and you're
passing each other and there's no
there's no connection yeah that's there
and so it feels like you're learning
with the opposite hand so what happens
it takes longer the quality is not as
good it feels a little weird and
uncomfortable so I feel like when you
know what your strengths are you can
lean into it and then further refine it
and we get people suggestions if they
want to improve areas that they're not
as strong in to be able to boost that
but this is weighted right because
because you named a couple of those
there and I thought you know I'm
probably a cheater I've got a little bit
of a elephant in me as well no pun
intended and I you know I like to think
I can be a dolphin once in a while so
yeah
they can express each other in different
contexts also as well you know and it's
it's nice to have uh a level of
cognitive flexibility you know and
because that increases your learning
agility it's one of the things that we
teach in Limitless is uh as six thinking
hats it's uh created by Edward de Bono
and it's this idea that if you are
facing a decision or difficulty or a
dilemma in your life one of the reasons
why we can't always think our way out of
something is because we see something
from a set point of view and what six
thinking hats does it gives you
permission to step out of yourself and
try on another lens meaning imagine this
table here has six color hats right yeah
and I want everybody to think about
who's listening or watching this right
now a decision you need to make or
difficulty doesn't have to be like life
and death but it's just something that
you know that where to live I'm thinking
about that's perfect where to live and
then you have these hats so the first
hat is the white hat I'm in no specific
order so imagine you're reaching out and
you're putting on the the white hat okay
right and the white hat and I'll give
you a mnemonic because I'm the memory
guide to help you remember what each one
symbolizes the white hat imagine a white
scientist's lab coat like a white lab
coat that's data that's information
that's facts right so now you can only
look at the situation or this decision
tree through the ACT Through The Eyes of
logic okay sorry all right I'm doing
that now so me and my partner are
actually looking for someone to live at
the moment and we're we've been looking
it was really about which area to live
in in London or maybe we'll live in
Portugal or maybe Dubai so we're kind of
trying to figure that out okay so I've
got my white hat on and my lab coat and
I can only think about logic surprise
I'm thinking about is it a good time to
buy what's the graph saying
I'm thinking about renting versus buying
commute and travel and amenities that
are thought yeah that would be all the
factual and then so you could take off
the white hat and now look for the red
hat
so you grab the red hat you put it on
and the red hat is symbolizes heart is
emotions so this is where you're going
more with your gut you're feeling you're
putting logic aside and just like what
what feels right for you her family
lives in Portugal so that's the first
thing that came to mind when you said
about feelings of being close to family
yeah absolutely and this is this is good
I hope everyone's doing this also so you
take off the red hat and you could put
on let's say the the black hat
and the black hat think of a judge's
robe and the judge's robe this is where
you get a little bit you could be
judgmental you could look at the the
risk or the or the uh The Devil's
Advocate you could look at the the other
side you know in terms of what could go
wrong you know like you might hate
living there you know you know the
places we're considering we've never
lived in before so what if we buy a
place and then we immediately don't like
it maybe we should stay where we are not
by anywhere
maybe interesting the housing market
will collapse and it'll be such a bad
investment that will will regret it so
you're shining a spotlight so the idea
here is that the information is out
there but where are we choosing to put a
spotlight and acknowledge and be aware
of so you could take off the Black Cat
and we're doing this abbreviated right
and then uh look for like the Yellow Hat
you put on the yellow hat and the yellow
is like the sun and that's like optimism
and this is like all the things opposite
of the the black hat going wrong what
could go right like the upside and even
you know and even all those things are
just named we'll figure it out yeah
we'll figure it out if we live there we
can always move somewhere else and
um we'll make it work and
Dubai's lovely it's hot yeah so is
Portugal
nice and those are four hats and the
last two
take off the yellow hat and find their
green hat and so you put on the green
hat and the green is possibility it's
like New Growth if you look at the
plants that are green imagine new new
foliage new new growth and these are
like maybe thinking outside the box like
maybe it's not I go to you know I go to
this job or this job maybe it's I go
back to school or maybe it's something
I'm not entertaining
so that's possibility
so that would be in the context of me
moving house what is that that's yeah
the possibility of so if it was like
between this and this it could be like
a choice three or Choice four or third
option so maybe we'll try America or
we'll try another place to live in the
world or
um
maybe we'll just Airbnb in all these
places and we can live in all of them
yeah okay so that would be green and
then finally the last hat so it could be
done in any order but the blue hat is
always you end with so put on the blue
hat and the blue imagine the sky
overlooking everything it's kind of like
the uh the manager Hut it listens to all
the conversations with all the other
color hats and then it helps you make a
decision because it informs because
here's the thing you can only make
decisions based on what's in your
conscious awareness and so many people
live with a certain hat on like 24 7.
they are just that logical facts prove
it to me and they see through a certain
lens but if they're not you know looking
at the emotional context or other
possibilities or with the downside of
you know Branson's very good at that
right he's very good at looking at
everyone looks at him as very very risky
you know like you know do all these
crazy things but he's you know you have
conversations with him he looks at like
from the blackout look in terms of risk
management right and and many gaining
the downside and so like but if you just
looked at everything through the Yellow
Hat investing optimistic you think
everything's in the Bitcoin everything's
going to be good and you go on that and
you're ignoring the other points of view
and so this allows you to have more
information and so hopefully with that
more information you can make a more a
wiser Choice with something and that's
kind of you literally recommend people
in chapter 15 of this book to buy
multi-colored hats this is
um if you wanted to be able to do that
we could do this we do this with our
team where we'll go through with our
team and say either one of two things as
a team building exercise or like we're
facing this you know initiative we're
launching a new book or we're doing this
whatever uh like a social media
challenge or whatever and we'll have
people like everyone put on the same
color hat metaphorically like literally
physically go like this and put it as if
you know so they get their body into it
also and we're all looking at it through
the same point of view or we'll assign
different hats for different people and
we'll have this big kind of you know
court case and conversation and now the
rule is you have to talk as if you're
from that you know point of view and
that allows us to get outside of
ourselves it's similar to Innovation
where there's a there's a book called
the structure of Scientific Revolution
it's not not really fun read but the the
essence of it is a lot of innovation uh
and progress comes from people outside
of that industry because it takes
somebody from the outside to have a
different lens or hat to that didn't
have the same learned helplessness and
taught the same limitations of how
things should have been done so maybe an
Elon outside saying well if we're gonna
make a car today with today's technology
how would we go about doing that instead
of doing just incremental improvements
on you know what they have existing
right and I think you ask a new question
and you get a new answer and part of
these you know 60 000 thoughts we have a
lot of them are informal questions but
all those questions getting a shining a
light we have something called a
reticular activating system which we
talk about a lot that the brain
primarily is a deletion device deletion
deletion is where we're trying to keep
information out yeah like because if we
let everything in overload yeah of
course that would be that way and you'd
be stressed right and so we're primarily
but what we let in we have part of our
nervous system called the RAS that
determines this is important to us so if
you're going around in the city and
somebody shouts out your name you're
going to turn around even if you know
logically you don't know that person but
you're wired your Ras is wired for your
name right because and think about how
it got there it's probably one of the
first words you learned how to be able
to write and and say and and how much
praise you I mean how much love is
associated to be able to your identity
around a name but also what also helps
us to channel our Ras in terms of our
Focus are the questions we ask so a part
of the book I talk about a dominant
question that I believe that everybody
has a question that they ask more than
any other question and that question
could determine a lot of your focus and
because your focus determines how you
feel what you do and what you're
experiencing life and the results so for
example
a friend of mine you know we talked
about this dominant question we found
out her dominant question the ones he's
thinking about consciously or even
unconsciously throughout the day is how
do I get people to like me
and now you don't know her career what
she looks like you know what you don't
know anything about her but you probably
could guess a lot of things about her if
somebody was obsessed with answering the
question how do I get people to like me
what would you say her personality is
like
insecure very she's a a martyr a lot of
people take advantage of her some people
call it a sycophant or a people pleaser
maybe her personality and I've seen this
Dynamic changes depending on who she's
spending time with
you know because she likes whatever they
like and does whatever they do so you
don't know anything about her but you
know a lot about her and you only know
one question she asked herself
you know I'd use the story with Will
Smith in the book I help a lot of actors
to you know um remember their lines or
be focused on set or speed read their
scripts or whatever we're in Toronto
and they're shooting uh we're training
during the day doing some brain training
at night they're shooting 6 p.m to 6 a.m
and it's very cold it's February Winter
Toronto at night and a lot of people
think it's very glamorous Hollywood but
a lot of it as you know it's very hurry
up and just wait right this is waiting
all the time and it's an outdoor shoot
and his family happens to be visiting
and they're all just watching the
monitors and there's a big break and
during that they he brings them he makes
out chocolate and brings it to him to
all of us right even though there's a
crew that would do that he's there um
cracking jokes and and telling stories
because we realized that his dominant
question earlier that day is how do I
make this moment even more magical
he asked that unconsciously wherever it
came from how do I make this moment
magical and I realized that he was
living that question his dominant
question which determines the dominant
thoughts and actions
for me
I grew up with a broken brain so I was
like I didn't have answers so I was like
how do I be invisible and for years I
would just like shrink down and get sick
psychologically before I had to take a
test so I get to go to the nurse instead
of having to perform but later I
switched it to like how do I fix this
and then my dominant question ended up
being how do I make this better and I'm
obsessed you and I were talking before
we started recording
this idea of being the best version of
yourself and at some level you must have
thoughts or a defining question that
says how do I make this better
because that's probably
because how do I convince the world that
I'm enough oh I think that's probably
that's definitely what the dominant
question started with in my life
now it's not that as much and I look at
my behavior as evidence so I don't look
at my words because I think my words and
my thoughts have often deceived me going
back but I look at my behavior and the
choices I make and they seem to be more
intrinsically motivated than
extrinsically motivated so they seem to
be more about
um
doing things for me not for the approval
of someone outside of me is there
something that's more recent
or was there some inciting
something that kind of put you on that
where you went for how do I prove to the
world I did the things that I thought
would prove it oh yeah and
you know it's interesting because I
I've never really talked about this
before but I know a lot of people close
to me that grew up with that feeling of
like they didn't feel like they were
enough and so they committed the next
with a decade of their life to proving
that they were in some way whether it's
business Sports Athletics often to their
parents whatever and
this might be wrong but my observation
is
they had to do that and then have the
evidence let them down
or they had to do that in order to kind
of
change the question so it's funny
because you'd hate to say to someone
listen the only way you're gonna believe
that you are actually enough is if you
go and become really really successful
right and then you can stop buying all
that stuff you don't actually like and
stop showing off or whatever you that's
the only way you're going to be able to
do it but that seems to be the case for
a lot of my friends that are I've got
one friend that's the son of a
billionaire
he went and built a billion dollar
business himself and until he did he was
one of the most insecure materialistic
superficial people I've ever met and
then once he had built that tremendous
business and established his own
identity kind of gotten out of his
father's Shadow then he sold all the
[__] he sold everything he sold the nine
sports cars he sold the house just wears
all black now doesn't seem to give a
[__] anymore and I
and I I can kind of relate without
making a billion I can kind of relate to
what he's saying um or that experience I
think my question changed uh
um what is my potential hmm
that seems to be my dominant question
yeah and I would invite everybody
everybody has a question and not only
for yourself because you just just
sometimes we're silent or we're under
stress we realize that those questions
come out of us we start asking questions
um and you know especially if we're face
difficulty and we go mine is like how do
I fix this or how to make it better some
people because some people ask questions
like you know why can't I do this or why
why don't I why can't I ever have this
whatever it is and they're getting
answers that aren't very supportive
right it's this equivalent when people
read and they want to understand more of
what they read right A lot of people
read a page in a book get to the end and
just forget what they just read or not
even understand it because they didn't
have any questions to begin with and so
I think that a lot of times we get used
to just listening to a podcast or
watching a YouTube or reading a book and
then we feel like our lives are
different because of just that process
and I just want to remind everybody for
every hour you spend listening to a
podcast I would challenge everybody to
spend an equal hour putting that into
play and one of the ways you could do
that as you're listening something is
ask yourself three dominant questions
for me or is how can I use this
so I I'm obsessed with this question how
can I use this you know because then I
start saying there's the answer there's
an answer there's an answer second
question why must I use this because
common sense is not common practice your
listeners have probably forgotten more
about life-changing transformation
Health Wellness business that most
people in their lives come across that's
just the truth right they're probably
like why are you always watching you
know Steve's podcasts and videos and all
this stuff you know because sometimes
family and friends don't want to lose
you and they want to kind of keep you in
a certain place and and but if you ask
yourself why must I use this and you get
into head heart and then hands then you
have this incredible purpose and drive
and then another question I ask besides
how can I use this why must I use this
is when will I use this I think one of
the most important productivity
Performance Tools we have is our
calendar but you'll see people will
schedule investor meetings they'll
schedule team calls
sales meetings whatever doctor's
appointments but they're not always
scheduling their execution of things
that they read from that business book
or something that they watched and so I
just want to encourage everybody that
you know it's better
is better well done than well said you
know and and the practice what we post
and the way we do it is I think the life
we live are the lessons we teach others
the life we live are lessons we teach
because you're absolutely right that
people could say something but that does
it's better to show it you know it's not
and one thing the promises it's another
to prove it right you know especially in
the in the world that we are today
quick one before we get back to this
episode just give me 30 seconds of your
time
two things I wanted to say the first
thing is a huge thank you for listening
and tuning into the show week after week
means the world to all of us and this
really is a dream that we absolutely
never had and couldn't have imagined
getting to this place but secondly it's
a dream where we feel like we're only
just getting started and if you enjoy
what we do here please join the 24 of
people who watch this channel regularly
and have hit the Subscribe button means
more than I can say and if you hit that
subscribe button here's a promise I'm
gonna make to you I'm gonna do
everything in my power to make this show
as good as I can now and into the future
we're going to deliver the guests that
you want me to speak to and we're going
to continue to keep doing all of the
things you love about the show
thank you thank you so much back to
episode I've been thinking a lot about
this in um in the book that I've been
writing coming out soon called The Diary
of a CEO 33 laws
um for business
and life and in chapter one which is law
one of the book I was playing around
with this idea of Knowledge and Skills
and all of these things and
the relationship they have between them
and really was trying to find advice for
young people that want to get to a point
where they have reputation and a big
Network and lots of resources right and
I was trying to figure out the order so
I almost visualized it like five buckets
in the first bucket I wrote down as
knowledge that's the first one right and
these are sequential buckets so they go
from you know this is bucket one and
then once you fill that bucket when you
apply knowledge it turns into a skill
and then once you have
knowledge and applied knowledge which I
call skill then you'll get these other
things then you'll get
resources you'll get a network and
you'll get a reputation but it's those
first two buckets you can't have skills
without knowledge really and knowledge
is certainly the first one but just
having knowledge and alone without that
applied skill without that applied
knowledge which we call a skill you'll
never get the reputation the resources
and the network and the only two buckets
that no one ever can take from you the
only two buckets that anyone can
never unfill is the knowledge bucket and
also the skill bucket people can take
away your reputation they can take away
your resources they can take away your
network but they can never unfill these
two buckets and these two buckets are
the first two buckets which go on to
fill the other three
um and that's why I think more recently
in my life I've
I've become obsessed with learning am I
a great learner no
I don't think I am because I sit here
you know I sit here with the greatest
Minds in the world and I remember very
little of it and it's funny as you were
saying I was like I've been thinking
this over the last couple of weeks I've
never really shared this with anybody
but I thought gosh you're in such a
privileged position to get to meet all
these incredible people I should be
like a human Encyclopedia of information
and wisdom and I don't think I don't
think I am you know I meet people that
are I sit here with them I think you're
one of them I give this guy is
everything and he's remembered
everything he knows the names of studies
and he can recall name I can barely
recall names of people so I'm like where
where do I start because look I'm in a
privileged position meeting all these
wonderful people and our listeners are
too if anyone's you know loyal to this
podcast you're like me I actually wrote
something down as you're speaking I was
thinking what we need to do here at the
diver CEO after the episode ends is we
need to set the audience some homework
yeah and what I mean by that is say Okay
Jim said these three core ideas
after the episode I want you to go and
Implement them and then I want you to
like tag me on social media of you
implementing them the action after the
episode and share it with me and that's
what I think we should all do because
then not only are we going to listen
yeah we're going to learn
and those are two very different things
yeah and I feel also when we teach
something we get to learn it twice
meaning you share that with your friends
your family your followers your fans
it takes advantage of something called
the explanation effect the explanation
effects says that when you learn
something with the intention of
explaining it to somebody else you're
going to learn it much better and that's
kind of obvious right if you
you know if we talked about speed
reading or the best brain foods or
changing your habits optimizing your
sleep the kind of things that we
specialize in and somebody listening had
to give a tedx talk about it the
following week would they focus better
they would have a better concentration
would they take more notes when they ask
more post more questions online right
they would own that information
and so I think that learning with the
intention of teaching helps you to be
able to certainly learn it better I mean
that that's even how you could even use
uh
you could explain it to somebody I mean
the whole Richard Feynman method was you
know take this difficult subject
Neuroscience quantify whatever it
happens to be like social media
marketing Ai and explain it to me as if
I am a six-year-old you know right and
that can you know and I can open up a
whole thing with with this conversation
in terms of artificial intelligence you
know and creatives but I really feel
like all these tools are there to
augment
I don't even think it's artificial
intelligence for me it's obviously
machine learning but it's it's augmented
intelligence and I'm thinking like how
do I use this tool like I would use a
book or computer in the internet
whatever to AI to enhance hi like human
intelligence I'm very interested in that
people I think
mean you know the framing technique well
but I when I came across it it really
was a game changer for me because it
explained why I'm some I have good
comprehension on certain subject matter
and then I'm quite loose on others
um could you explain it in a simple way
I know you have a you speak to a version
of it in the book but for anybody that
isn't aware of that technique
so the idea here is any anyone can make
things more complex but the the idea is
when you really understand something you
could simplify it in a way that makes it
usable for the end result right and and
not only the end result but the process
of learning it so meaning
I I love reading the Neuroscience papers
and having deep conversations and I
think where
where if we have had any level of
success is Translating that in a way to
people where it's conversational where
they see the relevance in their daily
lives in the application and uh and and
as results oriented and how does that
impact our ability to to learn the
subject this Fryman technique because
stage one is of the fireman technique
from what I remember is you learn
something and then stage two is I
believe you
simplify it and then you share it and
then if you can't share it to the
six-year-old you go back to learning it
right
and that that's a great synapses of it
and I would say that so how
how it builds so every single time you
have a new there's a Oliver Wendell
Holmes quote that says a person's mind
one stretched by a new idea never
regains its original dimensions and so
when we have so neuroplasticity happens
when we experience novelty so we learn a
new idea or something happens in our
environment it's neuroplasticity allows
learning it allows adaptation it even
allows recovery from
traumatic brain injury right it like I
had these deficiencies if we calm that
and I was able to compensate by creating
workarounds like somebody would do in in
some kind of program you know and then
you start building paths another way of
neuroplasticity it's kind of like if I
walked through a field and there are
lots of bushes you know I walked through
it once and I didn't know not much
changes but if you take that path and
you reinforce it through repetition or
space repetition interval training then
all of a sudden it becomes more of a
path and eventually becomes a road and
it becomes a highway and we've made that
connection so I like I like pulling on
things that are natural as as metaphors
but we learn through metaphors because
all of learning is taking something you
don't know and connecting it to
something you do know people say
learning is repetition like they just
say do just say it loads does that work
it it does but when we're looking at
methodology repetition the problem with
repetition and certainly it leads it
gets a result
it's rote learning
it's like when the when the churches
started universities and how people
would teach would be the teacher or
Professor would say a fact
and to the class and the class would
repeat it and then the teacher would say
it again and the class would repeat it
and so I'm making on video if you're
watching this a circular motion like
rote like rotary like a rotary club
their symbol is a wheel the first half
of the wheel is a teacher saying the
fact the second half of the wheel is the
class repeating the fact and you do that
50 times and then you build that pathway
and you have quote-unquote learning the
problem with that is it takes so much
time and now we live in an age where the
amount of formations it's like doubling
at dizzying speed right there's more
information today in the newspaper than
somebody in the 17th century ever came
across in their whole life right when
you think about also blogs and social
media and podcasts it's just like it's
overwhelming so we can't be learning the
same ways okay so I've got a book coming
out as I said and there's 33 laws and
I've been saying to myself listen you're
gonna at some point start really
promoting this book
um so you need to memorize all 33 laws
yeah like I actually don't need to yeah
I mean so I need to remember what am I
doing with my life
30 these 33 laws um I need to remember
basically what the law is and then the
gist of it yeah how would you help me do
that I could do that heartbeat okay
let's let's turn this into coaching and
we we could we could use
um just content that everyone could
relate to because I don't know how much
of the laws you want to share or how
much you have insurance on top
um okay so the method I'm going to share
with you I call it Pi p-i-e that three
ingredients for a better memory P stands
for place we remember things based on
where we put it like you put your keys
in a certain spot each time you you're
always going to find it because it's
organized right you forget someone's
name you ask yourself where do I know
the person sometimes the context gives
you the content so that's a place as a
place to store the information the I is
imagine we remember things better that
we could see and imagine meaning um
I bet as difficult as names are to
remember you remember faces yeah so many
people remember faces because you're
more of your visual more of your brain
is dedicated towards your visual cortex
and takes up more real estate so we tend
to remember things we see better than
what we hear
um so you see the face and you go to
someone you know I remember your face
but I forgot your that's me every day of
my life never go to somebody say the
opposite you never go say I remember
your name but I forgot your face I wrote
people inside hi nice to see you and
then I realized I didn't remember their
name well what help you with that okay
so here here we go so the I is imagine
we tend to remember what we see there's
a proverb that says what you hear you
forget what you see you remember what
you do you understand what you hear you
heard the name you forgot it but you see
you remember you saw the face remember
face so what you could see and we think
in pictures when like when you got on an
airplane it doesn't say no longer to say
no smoking fasten your seat belts
there's just pictures and we think in
pictures the picture is worth a thousand
words so you want to imagine those
pictures and the Ian pie
entwine entwine is where you're
connecting and Twine means to associate
or to connect and what are you
connecting the p and the I the place in
the image so let me give you an example
five buckets low number one
right yeah yeah and we could do the we
could do the five buckets also um I was
gonna teach these people do quickly 10
things that they could do to upgrade
their brain let's do your 10 things but
certainly we could apply this towards
buckets too
um all right so there are so are our
we're blessed that the the book was
heavily endorsed by like the Cleveland
Clinic Center for brain health the
founding director there one of the top
Alzheimer's research at a harbor Dr Rudy
tansy and when I speak at these
organizations we know that about
one-third of your brain performance your
memory is predetermined by genetics
two-thirds is in your control
um they say the metaphor is that for
example Alzheimer's and this is like we
donated a lot of the proceeds to
alzheimer's research for for our book is
in memory of my grandmother they say
that your genetics will load the gun but
your lifestyle will fire it right it
kind of kind of makes sense and it's not
like all metaphors they're not absolute
they're not absolutes but there's an
idea to connect something you don't know
to something you you know so going to
this um two-thirds I'm going to give
everybody right now the 10 Keys as you
know it in the book but I'm going to
show you how to memorize them but what I
liked it to do whether or not people
memorize them or not and I find that
people will be able to do it pretty
easily and effortlessly is at least rate
yourself 0 to 10 how much energy and
effort and tension are you putting
towards this area because everyone wants
to know the one thing they could do for
an incredible memory there's just not
there's not a magic pill but there is a
process right so we'll go through them
fast number one good brain diet so
everyone on a scale of 0 to 10 10 being
the best how much energy attention time
are you putting towards a good brain
diet so there's certain foods that are
very neuroprotective and I would also
say I'm not a doctor or nutritionist
everyone's bio individual so do allergy
testing do functional medicine testing
in terms of microbiome test nutrient
profile food sensitivity so everyone's a
little different in general some of my
favorite brain foods avocados the
monounsaturated fat is good for the
brain blueberries I like to call them
brain berries very neuroprotective
broccoli good for your brain olive oil
good for the brain if your diet allows
eggs the choline and eggs is good for
cognitive Health green leafy vegetables
like kale and spinach and now again some
people are allergic to kale so that
wouldn't be for you another one I would
say uh wild sardines or like wild wild
salmon or sardines like your brain is
mostly fat so those fish oils turmeric
is a great brain food meaning it helps
to lower inflammation you can use that
while you're cooking walnuts everybody's
just waiting for you to say chocolate
yeah here you go walnuts and dark
chocolate dark chocolate not milk
chocolate so those are some of the brain
foods so zero to ten on the other side
that's not so good processed you know
thing foods high sugar what does it do
to the brain so
sugar is highly addictive right you've
had guests on you're probably talking
about how it's more addictive than a lot
of drugs right there are certain things
that are not good for the brain and I I
don't know again people like we've had
on our podcast or we've interviewed for
the book like people like Dr Dr Mark
Hyman Dr Daniel Amen you know sugar
alcohol
marijuana certain things so just certain
things like alcohol could
some people say they use it to help them
sleep but there's a difference between
getting knocked out and actually getting
good deep sleep getting good REM sleep
uh sleep is just personal focus of mine
but sure is highly addictive not good A
lot of people are also hyper you know
the ADHD the hyper Behavior a lot of
times you could
eliminate sugar but in the U.S schools
it's tough you know we're having vending
machines there with all the pop and the
sodas and the
just yeah but to get through the list
zero to ten how good is your diet number
two and I'll go through these fast
killing ants uh ants uh killing ants
actually a claim to be proven to be good
for your brain ants I get this from Dr
Daniel Amen automatic negative thoughts
remember we talked about the the power
of your thoughts and just keeping it
even if you say I don't have a great
memory just add a little word like yet
at the end it just changes you know the
potentiality of that statement
um so in zero to ten how encouraging uh
optimistic
um are your are your thoughts and those
beliefs number three in no specific
order again is exercise okay there's so
much research talking about the power of
movement and the brain when you move by
the way
studies show that when you listen to
your podcast when people are listening
to this podcast and they happen to be
doing something rhythmic going for a
nice walk with the dogs or on an
elliptical they'll actually understand
the information and retain it better
when your body moves your brain grooves
just remember that when your body moves
your brain grooves when you move your
body you create brain derived
neurotropic factors bdnf which is like
fertilizer for the brain it's like
fertilizer promoting neuroplasticity
number four brain nutrients and this is
I always prefer people get it from Whole
you know their own foods
but you know I again you could get so
much data nowadays you could do a
nutrient profile because if you're
lacking if your vitamin D levels are low
you're not going to perform your brain's
not going to perform at its best you
know if you're not getting your Omega-3s
your brain is mostly you know made out
of fat or dhas your vitamin C your
vitamin B's everyone comes here and
talks to me about Bloody vitamin D and
Omega three yeah everybody says the same
two things supplements work for that
right
do supplements work for vitamin D
quality supplements yeah you know I
would again prefer people get it from
sunlight and prefer people get it from
natural sources like everything fish or
whatever time I don't go out in the
sunlight enough
I need to fix that yeah you've had
guests talking about the power of
sunlight first thing in the morning to
reset their circadian rhythm to help
them sleep you know for me in the
morning I try to do I try to get the
elements in my life so I think about
thousands of years ago they thought the
four elements made up of made everything
up that you see so it's like you know in
Babylonian times in Greek times you know
four elements of air water fire and
Earth and so like I don't know I take
this approach in the morning you don't
have to biohack everything you can do
for free go out there outside and get
some Earth get your feet on the ground
right really simple to do
um and just to feel more grounded and
more connected and there's also and I
think an energetic and people talk about
pulse electromagnetic fields and
everything but I don't know I feel more
grounded when I just walk in the grass
simple thing people could do and then
I'm thinking about air I could do my my
my deep breathing or some people do fire
breathing Alpha breathing Wim hop
breathing first thing in the morning
clear the cobwebs of the night and then
some water drink some water or take your
cold shower you get to integrate it
however whatever your morning routine is
and then fire is the is the sunlight for
me you know first first thing in the
morning but I just find that any of the
biohacking stuff and people follow me on
Instagram you know I have my toys and
everything else they're just to mimic
nature you know a lot of the times you
know the the red lights and the the
the the cold plunges and all that all
that stuff Nature Point number five is a
clean environment yeah so after brain
nutrients zero to ten rating yourself
five is a clean environment and I this
is for everything and including the
quality of the air that you're breathing
some you know like I had somebody on our
podcast talking about the neurotoxins
and brand new carpets or Furniture you
know in terms of what they're sprayed
with
um and the off-gassing that comes from
it and how it could have a Toxic effect
you know on on your brain you wrote air
pollution is a massive and underrated
health risk they um they cause up to 30
percent of all Strokes life expectancy
is appreciably lower in cities than in
the countryside even accounting for
differences in wealth and lifestyle yeah
I mean we saw we sorted through a number
of research in talking about air
pollution of water pollution also as
well
um you know in terms of
the CERN residues that happens to be in
in whether it's in tap water or what
have you or some people are concerned
about Plastics that come from bottles um
also as well and other people are
concerned about we've had a couple
episodes uh talking about emfs you know
just the
how does that impact my brain though
I don't think we know you know all I
know is that the brain hasn't changed a
lot in the past hundred thousand years
but technology certainly has and you
know and we we talk about you know these
these videos that we make about morning
routine and evening routines and
millions of views just simple things
like don't touch your phone the first 30
minutes of the day or the last 30
minutes of the day something's so simple
and then Seven's brain protection brain
protection so clean environment even
just cleaning your desktop you know your
external world is a reflection of your
internal world are making your bed just
helps you get how you do anything is how
you do everything
um numbers number sorry that was number
six yeah number seven is is sleep so
very concerning with sleep and and brain
performance we know when you don't sleep
how's your thinking the next day you
know how's your ability to solve
problems how's your ability to focus
remember things when you sleep if you
have long-term memory issues get a sleep
study done that's where you consolidate
short to long-term memory is during
sleep when you sleep the sewage system
in your brain kicks in
um because as you know energy to do so
also as well and your brain doesn't it's
not it doesn't stop at night if anything
it's it's sometimes in ways more active
it's consolidating short to long-term
memory it's cleaning out beta amyloid
plaque that can lead to brain aging
challenges often a lot of the studies
show that with a lot of disease there's
a kind of a sleep deficiency component
also as well sometimes I'll wear a
device to monitor it because it's not
that people ask the quantity of sleep
what's the perfect amount seven eight
nine hours it's absolutely not the
quantity it's the quality of your deep
sleep and your REM sleep your deep sleep
you can imagine is where you're
recovering your body your REM sleep is
where you're restoring your your mind so
some seven is sleep zero to ten you know
how much Focus energy attention are you
putting towards it we've done Stress
Management which we talked about how
stress impacts the brain
um we talked about sleep there we've
talked about yeah yeah the last three
really quickly are uh protect your brain
yeah wear a helmet zero to you know your
brain's very resilient but it's very
fragile so I get to work with a lot of
sports figures that have post
concussions or tbis yeah you know and so
we have protocols for for that and
obviously see a doctor uh zero to ten
rate yourself new learnings is Big we
talked about the power of learning
novelty and for me reading reading is to
your mind what exercises your body I
think it's the best people that you get
all fancy apps and everything else I
think look someone who has Decades of
experience like yourself or your guests
and they put into a book and you can sit
down and read that book in a few days
you can download decades into days
that's the biggest Advantage right and
reading is incredible exercise for your
mind especially the way we we teach it
and then finally Stress Management which
you mentioned you know zero to ten how
well are you mitigating stress and
coping with stress What mechanisms and
tools uh rituals or practices do you
have you know my go-to is meditation
a quick word on heal as you know they're
a sponsor of this podcast and I'm an
investor in the company and I have to
say it's moments like this in my life
where I'm extremely busy and I'm flying
all over the place and I'm recording TV
shows and I'm recording shows in America
and here in the UK that heal is a
necessity in my life I'm someone that
regardless of external circumstances or
professional demands wants to stay
healthy and nutritionally complete and
that's exactly where heel fits in my
life it's enabled me to get all of the
vitamins and minerals and nutrients that
I need in my diet to be aligned with my
health goals while also not dropping the
ball on my professional goals because
it's convenient and because I can get it
online in Tesco in supermarkets all over
the country if you're one of those
people that hasn't yet tried Hill or you
have before but for whatever reason
you're not a real consumer right now I
would highly recommend giving huel a go
and Tesco have now increased their
listings with huel so you can now get
the RTD ready to drink in Tesco
expresses all across the UK
how is our gut linked to our brain you
know people often on this podcast have
said to me that there's a really
significant link between the two yeah
they call your your gut your second
brain right and so there's a lot of
neurotransmitters there you create a lot
of your uh your serotonin there also as
well what you eat matters especially for
your gray matter which we matters
especially for your gray matter there's
a lot of microbiome tests also that you
could test for food sensitivity that
exists in the market you know we had
Naveen Jane on our podcast and he has a
company called biome and they do that
test you know also as well but it shows
you green yellow red you know Green you
could eat pretty much as much as you
want of it yellow eat it sparingly and
Mild red ideally avoid but um but
imagine your gut is kind of like the
roots of a plant that's feeding this the
stem and the stock and the flowers of
your brain so what you want to eat it
should nourish you because you are what
not only you are what you eat you are
what you absorb frankly and so gut
health is is extremely important that's
why you know we talk about the power of
probiotics for people you know that
taken on uh maybe they do it first thing
in the morning but good bacteria my
friend turned around to me this weekend
only stag do I was at and he said
because we were talking about a book
we'd read and he said to me does it
matter that I don't read
he doesn't read yeah he's dyslexic
um I think he struggles with reading a
little bit yeah and he asks me does it
matter that I don't read yeah she's not
interested in it
so we could consume information however
we consume it Some people prefer to read
it Some people prefer to watch it some
people prefer to listen to it and we all
have different styles because in your
book chapter 14 it says there is a
direct relationship between our ability
to read and our success in life readers
enjoy better jobs higher incomes and
greater opportunities yeah I I do
believe so if people have seen photos of
me with Oprah or Elon or these
individuals you know people invariably
ask you know how did you connect how did
you
we bonded over books you know you and I
were geeking out over some of our
favorite sci-fi books right and then you
know he brought me into the SpaceX I did
training for their their rocket
scientists but it was um leaders or
readers you know you read to succeed you
know I talked about earlier that
someone's decades experience and they
read it you could read in a few days you
could download decades into days it's a
huge Advantage right and they say Warren
Buffett reads 500 pages a day
um so you want to read to succeed
because you know you learn from other
people's experiences you don't want to
spend the same time money trouble stress
from from somebody else now now I have
my reading has changed you know for four
years I read a book a day because I was
just so most people don't read because
they're not good at it so if I'm not
very good at golf see so like you don't
find me on the courses on the links too
very much because I'm not very good at
it so I don't really want to do it and
most people don't read because they're
not good at it because reading is a
skill and like all skills they can be
developed through training but when's
the last time you took class called
reading how old were you when you took a
class called not a college literature
Club but a reading class yes so most
people are still reading like they're
seven or six so the difficulty in demand
has increased a whole lot but how people
read it is from the last time they they
learned it and people think just because
they've been doing something for so long
they're better at it that's absolutely
not true right somebody even somebody's
the other day said I have 30 years of
experience in sales I'm like and then
but if you talk to them you're like not
really with the results he has like one
year of experience that's he's repeated
30 times there's a difference between
growth and somebody's just kind of
stalled right and same thing with
reading if you're just doing the same
thing just because you're doing the same
that's like typing if I'm typing with
two fingers there's a cap in terms of
how far and if you're doing this for 30
years or three years it doesn't matter
you're only going to reach a certain
point as opposed to people using more
other faculties now I know people who
are listening in Mass could triple their
reading speed right not have everything
like I can't how do I triple my reading
speed so okay
so what I teach is not traditional speed
reading traditional speed reading is
more associated with skimming scanning
skipping words getting the gist what you
read you know we train a lot of
wealth managers and and doctors you
don't want your doctor to get the gist
of what she reads right so you want to
be able to retain it so there's smart
reading so most of the time when we when
we have students in every country in the
world online through our Academy we kind
of build like a Khan Academy but instead
of for math it's for Accelerated
learning reading memory and so on so on
average people with triple their reading
speed how do you do it well I'll give
you a couple of tips because there's
different training is different than a
tip right like we have time for a couple
of quick tips doing a training would be
skill acquisition and and but um if you
allow like there's a link in my
Instagram I put in for this public and
there's a free one hour Master Class
people could double their reading speed
and bring whatever book they want and go
for it and it's it's there did you say
most of your your clients triple their
reading speed on average it's about
triple yeah at reading speed so so
reading is very it's very measurable
um now there's an upward cap like some
people like think you could read 20 000
words a minute the average person reads
about 200 words a minute on average you
know and so
um now by the way when you read it
doesn't make if you can't understand a
subject reading it faster is not going
to help right if you if you don't if you
don't if you don't understand Arabic
speed reading is not gonna if you don't
understand nuclear physics and reading
it faster is not going to help right so
there's there you need to you're not
going to read any faster than you can
understand but um I'll give you everyone
a couple quick tips
um number one when you're reading
most people lose focus right and that
slows them down their eyes Go in
different places and so if you use a
visual Pacer when you read you'll read
faster what do I mean by visual Pacer if
you're watching on video I'm using my
fingered underline or a pen or a
highlighter a mouse on a computer will
help you to read faster and and don't
believe everything I'm saying test this
so what I would do is after this
conversation grab a book that you're
reading put a mark in the margin where
you start and just read how you would
normally read and time yourself on your
phone for 60 seconds and then pick up
where you left off give yourself another
60 seconds but this time just underline
the words don't touch the screen if
you're reading online or don't touch the
book but just just go back and forth and
a rhythm that's comfortable for you and
then count the number of lines you read
the second time that second time on
average will be 25 to 50 faster
and most people will say after they
practice a little bit you know like
practice for a few days that their
understanding is actually better people
feel more in touch with their reading
I'll tell you why number one as hunter
gatherers we are visual creatures that's
our survival right if you are you have
to look at what moves so if your finger
is moving you're going to follow the
visual Pacer because it's your survival
like if something ran across this room
you wouldn't look at me you would look
at what moves because that's your
survival right because if you're
hunter-gatherer in a bush and you're
hunting
that rabbit or that care what whatever
your diet is right and that bush next to
you moves you have to look at what moves
because number one it could be lunch or
number two you could be lunch so either
way you have to look at what moves so
your fingers going across the page your
attention is being pulled through the
information as opposed to your attention
being pulled apart right
um the other reason why and I'll tell
you neurologically certain senses work
very closely together meaning
you have your tasted a great piece of
fruit like fresh from the farmer's
market like a great tasting Peach you're
not actually tasting the peach you're
smelling the peach but your sense of
smell and taste are so closely linked
that your mind can't tell the difference
you can tell a difference if you're sick
if you can't breathe out of your nose
and you're congested what does food
taste like
nothing tastes Bland right and so just
as your sense of smell and taste are
closely link so is your sense of sight
and your sense of touch that people
literally using their finger while they
read
will say they feel more in touch with
their reading in fact when people lose
their sense of sight how do they read
touch right when you train people on
this so that's the first one is usual
Pacer visual Pacer is there another tip
oh yeah I mean there are many I mean
that will boost your reading speed and
focus 25 50 across the board and then
you'll learn so there's something called
fixations and fixation is where your
eyes will stop and how many stops you
make across the page determines how fast
you're going to read right so it's like
in traffic if you're stopping if they're
10 words most people are stopping at
every single word so they're taking 10
stops
faster train readers will actually use
their peripheral vision to pull in more
than one word so if you look at a word
on that page on your screen you could
probably see the word to your left and
to your right right and so that's a
trained skill so a person seeing three
or four words doesn't have to make 10
stops they can make two or three stops
right so it's less taxing and you can go
faster because that starts top you know
and so there are all these different
tips and the master class will walk
people through so you actually get
training on it and it's and again it's
free 95 of what we publish is absolutely
free because we want to democratize this
to the world
but for your comprehension
key to comprehension though is asking
more questions what we talked about most
people aren't looking for the pug dogs
so even when you're taking a test
usually the questions are at the end
right in my books I put the questions in
the beginning so it charges your
reticular activity systems when you read
they're like oh there's an answer
there's an answer there's an answer but
the real culprit to reading faster is
something called sub vocalization
you ever notice when you're reading
something you hear that inner voice
inside your head reading along with you
yes that's what was just happening
hopefully hopefully you should not sure
it's hopefully it's your own voice right
it's not somebody else's voice yeah the
reason why it is an obstacle to
effective reading is if you have to say
all the words in order to understand
them you can only read as fast as you
could speak that means your reading
speed is limited to your talking speed
and not your thinking speed so what we
do is we train individuals to reduce the
subvocalization because the truth is do
you have to say all the words do you
have to say New York City to understand
what New York City is do you have to say
the word computer to understand what a
computer is the truth is you don't
because 95 percent of words are what
they call sight words they're words
you've seen tens of thousands of times
like a stop sign you don't have to say
stop every single time but you
understand what it means 95 of the words
in your book that you're reading online
emails are words you've seen before you
don't have to say it in order to
understand those words so we train
people to reduce this sub-vocalization
lastly on concentration and flow and
these kinds of topics yeah what advice
would you give me if I'm trying to get
into what they call the Flow State more
often and I'm trying to do deeper work
and be less distracted I mean there's
all these techniques there's one what's
it the pomodo technique and there's all
of these different techniques but what
have you found to be most effective all
right for those people who are
struggling with concentration and focus
and getting in the zone right um we've
done a number of podcasts this whole
chapter dedicated to flow the um the Art
and Science of getting in the zone right
flow is a state where you feel your best
and you perform your best that's those
flow States the the markers of it are
usually three things number one you lose
your sense of self right the second
thing you lose uh it's effortless it
almost feels like you're in that zone
you don't have to exert a lot of effort
and the third thing is you lose your
sense of time you don't know if five
minutes went by or five hours because
you're in the moment you're present so
you could actually here's the here's you
like first principles one of my first
principles is taking nouns and turning
them into verbs I get in the habit every
day of hearing it now and turn into a
verb meaning I think a lot of people
hypnotize themselves by the words that
they use they say I don't have
motivation today I don't have Focus
today I don't have energy you do not
have those things you do them so you
don't have motivation there's a process
for motivating yourself you don't have
energy there's a process for generating
energy you don't even have a memory you
do a memory there's a three-step process
for memorizing encoding storing and
retrieving right and so I think a lot of
what our podcast your mind and our work
is is about transcending
trans end it's about ending the trance
ending this massive gnosis through
marketing or media that were broken you
know like I felt for so long that I felt
like I wasn't enough like like for like
like you did
um or transcending our own thoughts
meaning like I am a procrastinator right
how do you change that if that's your
identity right and so going back to the
power of words and Turk taking nouns in
terms of the verbs Focus you don't have
Focus you do it there's a process for
focusing right and so what I would do if
I want to get into Flow State the
trigger for for flow getting in the zone
is when competence and challenge connect
meaning that imagine imagine a diagram
right and on one axis is challenged and
one accesses competence and skill if
something is too challenging and you
have low competence that's just
stressful right this bigger Challenge
and you're capable of handling If the
child if the capability is too high
you're highly skilled and the challenge
is too low then you're bored right
you're too skilled and this challenge
doesn't it's not even a challenge so no
you're not going to get that flow State
flow happens when you're at that edge
where it's just challenging enough to
keep you engaged and it's stretching you
also as well so it's a state of mind
that you could create and what I would
recommend doing it with everything is a
small simple step right and and when
you're in flow
the world kind of disappears so you have
this natural focus is there anything
that you have an activity like pricing
writing make you lose sense of time and
it's kind of effortless so people could
create that in their job in their
relationship on the on the field also as
well so so obviously
up level your capabilities right and
then have an acceptable amount of of
challenge there also as well also a lot
of that comes through finding passion
and focus so flow starts with focus and
what I would say is
focused activities of work
eliminating distraction to the best your
ability you know let's say you need to
focus on this activity your phone is not
there you people your family knows that
not to be bothered right and then you're
engaging somewhere somewhere
meaning there's something called the
zygarnic effect that I talk about in the
book and the zygon this is Doctor she
was a psychologist in Europe and she
noticed that when she's having coffee
out at the cafe outside that all the
wait staff would easily memorize all the
orders without writing them down until
they were delivered
then once the wait staff delivered that
order they would forget right and she
called it the zygarnic effect after her
last name that our our ability when we
start something there's a high
propensity for one us to want to finish
it right to have closure to have to
close that Loop you know that's how
people keep people coming back to every
Netflix show or whatever because there's
an open loop right some kind of suspense
that they want to get closure on so you
have to behave and and follow through
the zygonic effect if you start
somewhere anywhere because you
procrastinate you're more likely to
finish that activity because it's it's
an open loop and that open loop will
engage somebody to get into into flow
okay
what's the most important thing we
haven't talked about
in your view based on all of the the
mission that you
articulated so well at the start of this
conversation what's the most important
thing
okay so I love this discussion about
disrupting education you know in terms
of the power of meta learning and
learning how to learn if there was a
genie right now could Grant you any one
wish but only one wish everyone who's
watching listening would ask for more
wishes right
um because then they cannot get money
they get everything else they want if I
was in your learning Genie and I could
help you become a master and expert in
any one subject or skill by the way
everyone that thought food or something
before he said one more wish you're not
the only one so if I was your learning
Genie and I could Grant you one wish to
learn to become an expert in any subject
or skill people could think oh I want to
be a great dancer I want to understand
money or invest in whatever it is the
equivalent asking for Limitless wishes
is learning what learning how to learn
because we learn how to focus and
concentrate read understand uh remember
what can you apply that to everything
yeah money Mandarin martial arts music
management marketing everything it's so
much easier right so it's sharpening
this saw that to be able to you do that
first and all the other everything after
that cutting it's a lead Domino right
and so I think that that Limitless is A
Treatise on an owner's manual for a
brain the best diet sleep everything
else and the processes for focusing
remembering learning how to learn I
would say the thing that I would want on
my
professional Tombstone would be a Venn
diagram with three things and this is
the core to my work I realized Eve that
a lot of people know what to do but they
don't do what they know that most people
have forgotten more about personal
development and growth and
transformation and money and wellness
whatever they're hearing than most the
people that they know because common
sense is not common practice how do you
get yourself to overcome
self-sabotage procrastination and
actually get something done and so I'll
I can I would end with this Limitless
enough I'm being perfect it's about
progress but what in what area of your
life if you're still listening to this
do you feel like you're stuck that
you're not making progress think you
don't have to share this but I know
you're very vulnerable but is there an
area of your life you feel like you're
in a box and it could be your learning
you might be feel like yeah I wish I
could learn faster remember better read
faster I wish I was more organized if
you could see what my suitcase looks
like right now my cameraman walks into
my room it's like a [__] hurricane
that hit the room right yeah that's
embarrassing and the organization also
will help with your focus and everything
else because your external world is your
internal world so imagine everybody
right now listening let's make this
practical where are you stuck I'm gonna
admit something I've never made
when I connect my airpods to my iPhone
it says
Apple airpods brackets
23.
because that is my 23rd pair
of Apple airpods
so that's how unorganized I am that you
know for me to keep hold of those little
things it's the impossibility so anyway
sorry no no and we can work on that also
because I mean do you have expensive
well the thing when I teach meditation
or I do mindfulness it's not just about
that 20 minutes you're in silence
externally and internally whatever's
going on you could bring mindfulness
into your eating you know I I show
people just just challenge them to brush
their teeth with the opposite hand maybe
engages a different part of your brain
right the opposite side but it forces
people to be present you know and I
think flexing that presence muscles and
the mindfulness muscles first thing in
the morning is just very important
especially when you can tag it to a
habit that you're already doing and so
eating so it's not just what you eat
ask the other questions right it's why
you eat it's where you eat it's when you
eat it's how you eat also as well some
people are so stressed out about their
diet you know measuring every
micronutrient and everything and so
stressed out about some ideology that it
negates any health benefit they're
getting from it because there's so much
anxiety around eating right but it's
also not only why you eat but how you
eat some people as they're eating
they're working at the same time and
you've heard about the sympathetic
parasympathetic right in terms of our uh
our nervous system the sympathetic is
kind of like your your beta your your
your fight or flight but your
sympathetic is rest and digest but some
people when they're working they're not
even that parasympathetic place where
they could rest and digest their food
because they're also while they're doing
this they're working and stressed out or
on conversations or anything so you know
going going back to this I want everyone
just to imagine an area of their life
this is what I would teach
on my professional Tombstone is the
Limitless model it's a Venn diagram
three intersecting circles and I want to
everyone imagine an area of your life
where you feel stuck in a box your
income your impact your learning your
your Finance whatever it happens to be
your relationships where do you feel
like you're not making progress and by
definition that box is a cube right and
that cube is three-dimensional right so
the three forces that contain that box
like keeping you in there it's the same
three forces that will liberate you out
now the three forces that I'm talking
about are the Limitless model and if
you're watching this on video I'm going
to make three intersecting circles on a
pad of paper
so
three intersecting circles most people
know this as a Venn diagram it kind of
looks like Mickey Mouse two ears and a
head
and so these are the three forces that
will liberate you to help you become
Limitless in any area of your life and
this works for a person a family a team
a nation a world okay so it could be a
micro macro and this is how real
transformation happens so here's the
thing you're taking something specific
maybe your income or your reading speed
or your memory let's say your memory you
feel like you're in a box you can't get
out of it right the first Circle the top
left I'm going to give you three M's is
your mindset all right so your first
circle is your mindset and your mindset
I am going to Define as your set of
assumptions and attitudes you have about
something your attitudes assumptions
about me being unorganized yeah exactly
and that's going to continue in that box
right because it's defining the borders
and boundaries of what's possible okay
so if somebody could also whose finances
their mindset
and assumptions and attitudes about
money if people think money is the root
of all evil if money doesn't grow on
trees whatever their mindset is it could
contain them in that box if their memory
if they feel like they're Limited in a
box you know it could be I'm getting too
old I'm not smart enough right that's
mindset attitudes and assumptions about
something especially added to his
assumptions besides your attitude
assumption about a relationship what
does that mean that means I lost my
freedom doesn't mean whatever it is
that's going to affect your your quality
of box but the other part of it is your
mindset attitudes assumptions about
yourself so three things I would put in
mindset what I believe is possible
so you can believe it's possible for you
know Steve like millions of followers
and make all this money or whatever but
you might not believe it's possible for
you so what I believe is possible what I
believe I'm capable of is somebody could
those could be different and the third
thing is what I believe I deserve
like people don't feel like they deserve
to have this body or this business or
they have imposter syndrome or they
don't think they deserve to be happy in
a relationship that's going to affect
all behaviors belief driven right in
order to get a result new result you
have to do a new behavior in order to do
that new Behavior you need a belief that
allows that to be possible so that's
mindset so that's Mickey Mouse's left
ear right now Mickey's right ear is
going to be the second M which is
motivation okay huge
because you could have a limitless
mindset about money about about change
about your health your memory and you're
not motivated to get out of that box so
you're not getting out of that box so
motivation people talk about it like a
warm bath for me motivation is very
structured it's only three factors that
you have to unlimit the formula for
Limitless motivation to motivate
yourself to work out to read to meditate
or to motivate someone to buy or your
kids to clean their room three things P
times e times S3 the letter P times the
letter e
times S3 and what does this mean and now
take now see yourself in that box if
you're not motivated you're
procrastinating the p is purpose start
with why as Simon talks about but if you
don't feel it like I had I saw somebody
on the street the other day and he was I
didn't even recognize them because when
I knew him years ago he was so unhealthy
I mean like the worst extreme and all
friends would do intervention say give
him suggestions he would ignore all of
it he would take pride in being
unhealthy right
I see him on the street he lost all his
weight he looks younger I didn't even
recognize him and I'm just saying what
have you been doing he tells me all this
stuff I'm like we've been telling you
for like 20 to do this stuff why are you
all of a sudden and he's like I came
home tell me about this work trip he
came home and his daughter was like
crying hysterically and he had a dream
that he died right and wasn't there for
him and I was and and that's that was
purpose right so that's the thing we are
not logical we are biological dopamine
oxytocin serotonin endorphins we could
get that through life circumstances or
to focus on something that drives us so
sometimes we need a rock bottom moment
to
to get a new purpose in life that kind
of explains why that is the case so so
many of my guests here when I hear about
their life story say this particular
thing happened and then my life changed
what you're saying there is it was a
increase in their purpose
I would say there's some things in my
experience that you could only learn
through a storm like some some storms
come to teach us things you know or to
clear a path for us but certainly Rock
Bottom is an interesting perspective we
talked about the sixth thinking hats do
you have a look at something from
different point of view you know um so
the purpose so feel the purpose and so
just like people don't biologically they
buy emotionally get them emotional right
but then if you don't have an emotional
reason to read that book emotional
reason to remember that name is emotion
right no the Eep is the purpose which is
emotion the E is energy okay so some
people are motivated because they're
exhausted you know like so like the idea
here is like like I mentioned newborn
baby if you haven't slept for three
nights in a row you're not gonna be very
motivated to work out yeah right if you
had a big processed meal and you're a
food coma you're not gonna be very
motivated to study or read that deck
okay so like physiological energy
perfect so and remember you don't have
energy you do it so the things we talked
about reducing stress getting good
night's sleep eating the best brain
foods S3 now S3 somebody could have
Limitless purpose they know why they do
it they're doing the right things for
the right reasons and they can't have an
unlimited energy and still not be
motivated because they're overwhelmed or
because they're confused maybe that goal
is too big they want to meet their
soulmate and live happily ever after
that's way too big right they want to
make the next unicorn that's way too big
right on Dragon's Den whatever
S3 stands for small simple steps because
often what stalls us is we're
intimidated or we're confused and a
confused mind doesn't do anything right
even if you're marketing to somebody
give them purpose have them energy
meaning having resources Capital but are
you making it so simple they can't fail
small simple steps right because if you
make that too confusing they won't go do
anything so a small simple step this is
how you find it with a question I ask
myself this question every day when I
get confused or I get overwhelmed I say
what is the tiniest action I could take
right now that will give me progress
towards this goal or I can't fail
what's the tiniest action I could take
right now that will give me progress
towards this goal or I can fail so let's
say somebody doesn't work out right
because it's beyond that's too big of a
jump a small simple step put on their
running shoes maybe somebody leaders or
readers they're inspired now to say that
they're going to read every day for an
hour
that's too big maybe small simple step
opening up the book reading one line
can't get your kids to floss their teeth
give them the floss one tooth right
nobody's or put one sock in the hamper
you know to get clean because nobody
remember the zygonic effect nobody's
gonna stop at one tooth they're going to
go to completion so I believe little by
little a little becomes a lot and that's
the key for motivation mindset
motivation and then the last things the
head there is the methods
and I put that last because a lot of
people know the methods but they're not
doing it because they'd either have them
don't have the mindset or they don't
have the right motivation now here's the
reason why I share this and I'll put
this on my professional Tombstone is
because this is the gap between what
keeps people limited to limitless
meaning any area of your life you
control the controllables right and what
you could always control is your mindset
your motivation and the methods you're
using to reach that goal so what I would
do with this is I would put like goal on
top and then you could even use this as
a role modeling I could listen to all
your podcasts and discern and elicit
what is their mindset what is their
beliefs and attitudes assumptions about
that topic money redalio whoever you're
talking to right then I would say what's
their motivation what's the purpose you
know how are their small simple steps
and then the methods that they're using
because the methods that work today you
know aren't they they want the methods I
worked 10 years ago in marketing aren't
necessarily the same methods that will
work for today right or in investing or
in Wellness because there's a big
information upgrade so my message for
everybody is the past few years has been
very frightening for a lot of people and
out of that fear I feel like they've
downgraded their dreams to meet this
current situation and I think that's the
wrong approach you shouldn't be
downgrading your dreams to meet the
current situation you should be thinking
how do I upgrade my mindset how do I
upgrade my motivation how do I upgrade
the methods I'm using to be able to meet
those bold audacious goals right Jim we
have a closing traditional in this
podcast where the Lost guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're leaving it for okay the
question that's been left for you is
oh wow
good question
what is the last thing you did that you
deeply regret
okay I um
I'll say this I without giving names I
um I committed to an event to speak at
out of this country in your neck of the
woods and it's a vent I really want to
go to and I put it off for years
I do regret because I'm going to be
missing Father's Day here in the United
States and this boy I've learned so much
from he's only a few months old
but and I it's funny going into
fatherhood the three growth areas I've
had in my life were entrepreneurship and
you can identify with that right like
but it's all lies on you and we have
dozens of people that rely on you to for
their livelihood and the impact it's a
lot of responsibility my personal
relationship you know where you're
intimate with somebody and you're that
vulnerable and
but the third thing is is fatherhood
and I I went into this thinking I'm
gonna I'm gonna upgrade this kid's brain
and biohack the heck out of this kid
I've noticed over the past few months
that I've taken a different approach I'm
just like
loving this kid so much but just
observing
and I don't remember the times a lot of
my childhood because of what I went
through but just watching these
Revelations that he has hands and that
he can manipulate the world and I
realize that my perspective has changed
instead of me teaching him stuff you
know I want to protect him and provide
but I feel like he's reminding me of
these
these important core memories that I
that I had forgotten Jim thank you so
much Jim quick knows how to get the
maximum out of me as a human being a
wonderful quote that Will Smith has put
on the front of his book and that's
exactly what you're doing for so many
people that's the mission you're on and
that's certainly what you've done for me
I've been a fan of yours for some time
now
um having struggled with a lot of the
things you talk about in this book even
the process of meeting you and getting
to do the research is Advanced so many
of those in critical areas of my life
um really I think the key thing is it's
let down a series of limiting beliefs
that have held me
prison prisoner and hostage you knew the
first the left ear on that Mickey Mouse
thing was was mindset that's probably
where I'm struggling the most and from
reading your book Limitless that's
certainly the wall that has been left at
that has been that has been um torn down
so thank you for that and thank you for
the mission you're on because I can feel
in everything you say and all the
stories you tell how internally
motivated and how authentic you are
about what you're doing and that's a
service to the world that I think is
incredibly necessary so thank you so
much Jim thank you for your time thank
you for your vulnerability and thank you
for your wisdom can I challenge everyone
to do something Steve please I would
love everybody knowing their knowledge
by itself is not power that the small
simple step could lead to something big
is to take a screenshot of wherever
they're consuming this on social media
and Spotify and iTunes wherever and um
and tag you and I so we get to see it
and I have a question for everybody
because this will be my question for
your next guest is my normal question is
what are you gonna do for your brain
today and I would love to hear that also
but over the past 12 months
what is a new Behavior or a belief or a
habit an understanding that you've
adopted that has served you this past
year a new Behavior or belief that has
been supportive of you
and I would love for you to post that
tag us so we see it I'll repost some of
my favorites and I'll actually gift a
few copies randomly for the book out to
people and yeah signed copies or maybe
we could do that also as well so also as
well
books books or or everything for me and
then I encourage people to connect and
again I put that link if that's okay to
mention in our Instagram for the quiz
for the brain animal mybrainonwell.com
and to our podcasts and everything but I
appreciate Steve I'm being a big fan and
follower of your work
impeccable the amount of so many shows
like I'm you're on like somebody will
say something so deep and then and I'll
be so upset because the interviewer go
on well my next question is this and I'm
like whoa whoa but you're so good at
being present you know and I since you
create space for so many people to just
be vulnerable and you know it's real
it's raw and it's extremely rewarding so
thank you thank you so so unbelievably
kind of you to say that means the world
to me Jim thank you so much pleasure to
meet you and become friends thank you
foreign
some of you will know that this podcast
is now sponsored by the incredible
Airbnb I'm a huge user lover and
customer of Airbnb every time I go away
on a trip whether that's work related or
it's a holiday Airbnb is always my go-to
but have you ever considered have you
ever thought about making some extra
cash to cover some bills or to help pay
off a holiday let me explain further
perhaps people are coming to your town
or city for a music festival for an
event or a holiday and you have a spare
room why not Airbnb it or your home
office is free right now you're working
away from home during the week you can
Airbnb it honestly the possibilities are
endless I've Airbnb one of my Apartments
before and it's a great way to make
extra cash I'd highly recommend you all
to at least check it out that extra
space you have that extra room it might
be worth more than you think so to find
out just how much it's worth search
airbnb.co.uk host that's airbnb.co.uk
host check it out
oh
[Music]
foreign